README.md, before:

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Microverse-blueviolet)

# Weather Scraper

> This weather scraper formats important weather forecast information for any needed city.

This Weather Scraper used [12 Day Weather Forecast Worldwide](https://www.weather-forecast.com/) as the base website for the scraping.

![screenshot](./assets/images/city-prompt.jpg)

As indicated above, when the program is run it prompts the user to put in a desired city whose weather forecast they wish to receive. In this case for example, the city is `Abuja`. Abuja is the Capital of Nigeria.

![screenshot](./assets/images/city-forecast.jpg)

After the user's city has been correctly retrieved, the next display shows a list-like forecast of the user's desired city with a heading like `Abuja Weather Forecast`. It comes in four(4) sub-headings: `1 - 3 days` which includes the day of the request, `4 - 7 days`, `7 - 10 days` and `10 - 12 days` - with each containing some description of what the weather forecast for that period is.

![screenshot](./assets/images/other-cities-forecast.jpg)

Scrolling down further, weather forecast for five(5) cities near the user's city can be found too. In this case, for example, the five cities are `Keffi`, `Nasarawa`, `Kachia`, `Kafachan` and `Minna`. Now, each city contains sub-heading of the days intervals and a rather brief summary of the weather forecast for each interval.

## Built With

- Major language: Ruby
- Important Gems: HTTParty, Nokogiri

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Ruby must be installed
- Internet

### Setup

#### To get a local copy up and running simply follow the next step.
Clone this repository on to your local PC
- Click on the `Code` green button
- By the right end of the read-only input containing the repository link click the clipboard icon to copy the link
- In your local PC, open your terminal in the folder you would like to clone the repository into
- Clone the repository with the command: `git clone (copied link)`; like so: `git clone https://github.com/TedLivist/weather-scraper.git`
- After the clone, type in the command `cd weather-scraper` to access the directory on the terminal

#### To setup for RSpec testing
- While in the directory on the terminal run `bundle install`
- If you do not have the `rspec` gem installed, run `gem install rspec` on the terminal to install it

### Install
While still on the terminal and in the weather-scraper directory
- Run the `bundle install` command to install all the gems in the Gemfile

### Usage
- Type `ruby bin/scraper.rb` in the terminal to run this weather scraper program
- Give the program a few seconds to fetch the data
- The first heading contains weather forecast data for your requested city
- The next heading contains weather forecast for cities near your requested city
- If you do not request a meaningful city, the program would not return anything

### Run tests
There are two options:
1. Run all tests simply by typing `rspec` or
2. Run test for individual files by typing `rspec spec/[filename]_spec.rb` to run the tests for the corresponding `lib/filename.rb` file like so: `rspec spec/location_weather_spec.rb`

## Author

👤 **Teddy-Livingstone Ememandu**

- [GitHub](https://github.com/TedLivist)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/iamxted)
- [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/tememandu)

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome!

Feel free to check the [issues page](issues/).

## Show your support

Give a ⭐️ if you like this project!

## Acknowledgments

- [zayne](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCkoEStUK7wxmZef2DcPuCAQ)

Commit message:

Add live demo link to documentation

README.md, after:

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Microverse-blueviolet)

# Weather Scraper

> This weather scraper formats important weather forecast information for any needed city.

This Weather Scraper used [12 Day Weather Forecast Worldwide](https://www.weather-forecast.com/) as the base website for the scraping.

![screenshot](./assets/images/city-prompt.jpg)

As indicated above, when the program is run it prompts the user to put in a desired city whose weather forecast they wish to receive. In this case for example, the city is `Abuja`. Abuja is the Capital of Nigeria.

![screenshot](./assets/images/city-forecast.jpg)

After the user's city has been correctly retrieved, the next display shows a list-like forecast of the user's desired city with a heading like `Abuja Weather Forecast`. It comes in four(4) sub-headings: `1 - 3 days` which includes the day of the request, `4 - 7 days`, `7 - 10 days` and `10 - 12 days` - with each containing some description of what the weather forecast for that period is.

![screenshot](./assets/images/other-cities-forecast.jpg)

Scrolling down further, weather forecast for five(5) cities near the user's city can be found too. In this case, for example, the five cities are `Keffi`, `Nasarawa`, `Kachia`, `Kafachan` and `Minna`. Now, each city contains sub-heading of the days intervals and a rather brief summary of the weather forecast for each interval.

## Built With

- Major language: Ruby
- Important Gems: HTTParty, Nokogiri

## Live Demo

**Visit the link below and click the green `Run` button to run the app** <br />

### [Live link](https://replit.com/@iamxted/weather-scraper)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Ruby must be installed
- Internet

### Setup

#### To get a local copy up and running simply follow the next step.
Clone this repository on to your local PC
- Click on the `Code` green button
- By the right end of the read-only input containing the repository link click the clipboard icon to copy the link
- In your local PC, open your terminal in the folder you would like to clone the repository into
- Clone the repository with the command: `git clone (copied link)`; like so: `git clone https://github.com/TedLivist/weather-scraper.git`
- After the clone, type in the command `cd weather-scraper` to access the directory on the terminal

#### To setup for RSpec testing
- While in the directory on the terminal run `bundle install`
- If you do not have the `rspec` gem installed, run `gem install rspec` on the terminal to install it

### Install
While still on the terminal and in the weather-scraper directory
- Run the `bundle install` command to install all the gems in the Gemfile

### Usage
- Type `ruby bin/scraper.rb` in the terminal to run this weather scraper program
- Give the program a few seconds to fetch the data
- The first heading contains weather forecast data for your requested city
- The next heading contains weather forecast for cities near your requested city
- If you do not request a meaningful city, the program would not return anything

### Run tests
There are two options:
1. Run all tests simply by typing `rspec` or
2. Run test for individual files by typing `rspec spec/[filename]_spec.rb` to run the tests for the corresponding `lib/filename.rb` file like so: `rspec spec/location_weather_spec.rb`

## Author

👤 **Teddy-Livingstone Ememandu**

- [GitHub](https://github.com/TedLivist)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/iamxted)
- [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/tememandu)

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome!

Feel free to check the [issues page](issues/).

## Show your support

Give a ⭐️ if you like this project!

## Acknowledgments

- [zayne](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCkoEStUK7wxmZef2DcPuCAQ)
